Adding documentation for _list APIs (#8594)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/list/list-shards.md

---
layout: default

> title: List Shards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: List shards
```

parent: List API
nav_order: 20
---

> # List Shards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# List shards
```

**Introduced 2.18**
{: .label .label-purple }

> The List Shards operation outputs, in a paginated format, the state of all primary and replica shards and how they are distributed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list shards operation outputs, in a paginated format, the state of all primary and replica shards and how they are distributed.
```

## Path and HTTP methods

```json
GET _list/shards
GET _list/shards/<index>
```

## Query parameters

All parameters are optional.

Parameter | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---

> `bytes` | Byte size | Specifies the units for the byte size, for example, `7kb` or `6gb`. For more information, see [Supported units]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/units/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`bytes` | Byte size | Specifies the byte size units, for example, `7kb` or `6gb`. For more information, see [Supported units]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/units/).
```

> `local` | Boolean | Whether to return information from the local node only, instead of from the cluster manager node. Default is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`local` | Boolean | Whether to return information from the local node only instead of from the cluster manager node. Default is `false`.
```

> `cluster_manager_timeout` | Time | The amount of time to wait for a connection to the cluster manager node. Default is 30 seconds.

Reviewer: "30 seconds" => `30s`?

> `cluster_manager_timeout` | Time | The amount of time to wait for a connection to the cluster manager node. Default is 30 seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`cluster_manager_timeout` | Time | The amount of time to wait for a connection to the cluster manager node. Default is `30s`.
```

> `cancel_after_time_interval` | Time | The amount of time after which the shard request is canceled. Default is `-1`.

Reviewer 2: @gargharsh3134: What's the time unit for the default here?

Reviewer 2: Found it.

> `cancel_after_time_interval` | Time | The amount of time after which the shard request is canceled. Default is `-1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`cancel_after_time_interval` | Time | The amount of time after which the shard request is canceled. Default is `-1` (no timeout).
```

> `time` | Time | Specifies the units for time, for example, `5d` or `7h`. For more information, see [Supported units]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/units/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`time` | Time | Specifies the time units, for example, `5d` or `7h`. For more information, see [Supported units]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/units/).
```

> `next_token` | String | Fetches the next page of indexes. When `null` provides the first page of indexes. Default is `null`. 

Reviewer: "Fetches the next page of indexes when `null` provides the first page of indexes"?

> `next_token` | String | Fetches the next page of indexes. When `null` provides the first page of indexes. Default is `null`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`next_token` | String | Fetches the next page of indexes. When `null`, only provides the first page of indexes. Default is `null`.
```

> `size` | Integer | The maximum number of indexes to be displayed on a single page. The number of indexes on a single page of the response is not always equal to the specified `size`. Default is `500`. Maximum value is `5000`.

Reviewer 3: Is there a minimum limit?

Author: Added minimum limits.

> `size` | Integer | The maximum number of indexes to be displayed a single page. The number of indexes on a single page in the response is not always equal to specified `size`. Default is `500`. Maximum value is `5000`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`size` | Integer | The maximum number of indexes to be displayed on a single page. The number of indexes on a single page of the response is not always equal to the specified `size`. Default is `500`. Maximum value is `5000`.
```

> `sort` | String | The order the indexes are displayed. If `desc`, the most recently created indexes are displayed first. Ff `asc`, the oldest indexes are displayed first. Default is `asc`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sort` | String | The order in which the indexes are displayed. If `desc`, then the most recently created indexes are displayed first. If `asc`, then the oldest indexes are displayed first. Default is `asc`.
```

## Example requests

> To see only the information about shards of a specific index, add the index name after your query, as shown the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To limit the information to a specific index, add the index name after your query, as shown in the following example:
```

> 

Reviewer: Changed the above to match the language used on line 43 of the preceding file.

`local` | Boolean | Whether to return information from the local node only instead of from the cluster manager node. Default is `false`.
`cluster_manager_timeout` | Time | The amount of time to wait for a connection to the cluster manager node. Default is `30s`.
`cancel_after_time_interval` | Time | The amount of time after which the shard request is canceled. Default is `-1` (no timeout).
`time` | Time | Specifies the time units, for example, `5d` or `7h`. For more information, see [Supported units]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/units/).
`next_token` | String | Fetches the next page of indexes. When `null`, only provides the first page of indexes. Default is `null`.
`size` | Integer | The maximum number of indexes to be displayed on a single page. The number of indexes on a single page of the response is not always equal to the specified `size`. Default and minimum value is `2000`. Maximum value is `20000`.
`sort` | String | The order in which the indexes are displayed. If `desc`, then the most recently created indexes are displayed first. If `asc`, then the oldest indexes are displayed first. Default is `asc`.

> When using the `next_token` path parameter, use the token produced by the response to see the next page of indexes or aliases. After the API returns `null`, all indexes and aliases contained in the API have been returned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using the `next_token` path parameter, use the token produced by the response to see the next page of indexes. After the API returns `null`, all indexes contained in the API have been returned.
```
